SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. The 26 governors gathered here for their annual conference got 
a surprise lunch visitor today: former President George W. Bush.
Bush addressed a governorsonly lunch in a rare political appearance on the 
final day of the Republican Governors Association conference. The former 
president declined to answer questions from reporters when he was leaving the 
lunch, but an aide to Bush said he was asked by Gov. Christie, the new head of 
the RGA, to come surprise the governors at lunch and share some experiences 
from his time as governor and president.
On leaving the lunch at the posh Phonecian resorts steakhouse, Gov. Jan Brewer 
of Arizona said Bush spoke to the group for about two hours and took questions, 
stopping on his way to Oklahoma.
Brewer described him as upbeat and charismatic and said the president, who 
himself served two terms as governor of Texas, encouraged the group.
He agreed with us that the best breeding grounds for presidents are the 
governors, Brewer said, adding that Brewers question to Bush was what was 
the best piece of advice his mother gave him when he became president.
Brewer said he shared some details, but it was difficult because as we know 
mothers have a lot of opinions, its always hard in my opinion to go back there.
Gov. Nikki Haley of South Carolina called it a cool conversation while she 
was leaving and Gov. Mary Fallin of Oklahoma said the group agreed that the 
context of the discussion should be kept in the family.
When asked about Bush supporting the idea that the next presidential nominee 
should come from one of the nation’s statehouses as opposed to Washington, D.C., 
Fallin did not reveal more details of the conversation, but said: I think in 
general there is a popular opinion that the leadership of the nation would 
benefit from the governors because we are used to governing vs. someone who has 
never had to govern a government operation.
During Christies landslide reelection earlier this month in New Jersey, he 
was often compared to Bush and his reelection campaign in 1998. In that victory, 
Bush was able to attract support from traditionally Democratic constituencies, 
like Hispanic voters, to help vault himself to the GOP presidential nomination 
in 2000. Christie is likely to employ a similar strategy if he decides to run 
for president in 2016.
The Democratic Governors Association pounced on the surprise visit, saying, 
Republican governors are implementing the very same Bushera economic policies 
that crushed the middle class for the benefit of the wealthiest Americans and 
major corporations.
For the sake of the working families in their states, were hoping they kept 
the discussion to the weather, DGA spokesperson Danny Kanner said in a statement.
And although the lunch, as many of the meetings here this week, was closed to 
the press, the food was tasty, according to Texas Gov. Rick Perry.  He wouldnt 
share any details about the meeting with his fellow Texan, but did say the meal 
was an awesome piece of steak.