George Walker Bush (born July 6, 1946) is an American politician and businessman who served as the 43rd President of the United States of America 
from 2001 to 2009 and the 46th Governor of Texas from 1995 to 2000. The eldest son of Barbara and George H. W. Bush, he was born in New Haven, Connecticut. 
After graduating from Yale University in 1968 and Harvard Business School in 1975, Bush worked in oil businesses. He married Laura Welch in 1977 and ran 
unsuccessfully for the House of Representatives shortly thereafter. He later coowned the Texas Rangers baseball team before defeating Ann Richards in the 
1994 Texas gubernatorial election. Bush was elected president in 2000 after a close and controversial election, becoming the fourth president to be elected 
while receiving fewer popular votes nationwide than his opponent. Bush is the second president to have been the son of a former president, the first being 
John Quincy Adams. He is also the brother of Jeb Bush, former Governor of Florida.
Eight months into Bushs first term as president, the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks occurred. In response, Bush announced the War on Terror, an international 
military campaign which included the war in Afghanistan launched in 2001 and the war in Iraq launched in 2003. In addition to national security issues, Bush 
also promoted policies on the economy, health care, education, social security reform, and amending the Constitution to disallow samesex marriage. He signed 
into law broad tax cuts, the PATRIOT Act, the No Child Left Behind Act, the PartialBirth Abortion Ban Act, Medicare prescription drug benefits for seniors, and 
funding for the AIDS relief program known as PEPFAR. Bush announced the U.S. would not implement the Kyoto Protocol on global warming that had been negotiated by 
the Clinton Administration in 1997, and agreed to by 178 other countries, but never ratified by the U.S. Senate. His tenure saw national debates on immigration, 
Social Security, electronic surveillance, and enhanced interrogation techniques.
Bush successfully ran for reelection against Democratic Senator John Kerry in 2004, in another relatively close election. After his reelection, Bush received 
increasingly heated criticism from across the political spectrum for his handling of the Iraq War, Hurricane Katrina, and numerous other controversies. As a result, 
the Democratic Party won control of Congress in the 2006 elections. In December 2007, the United States entered its longest post World War II recession, often 
referred to as the Great Recession, prompting the Bush Administration to enact multiple economic programs intended to preserve the countrys financial system. 
Nationally, Bush was both one of the most popular and unpopular presidents in history, having received the highest recorded presidential approval ratings in the 
wake of 9/11, as well as one of the lowest approval ratings during the 2008 financial crisis. Internationally, he was a highly controversial figure, with public 
protests occurring even during visits to close allies, such as the United Kingdom.
Bush left office in 2009, and was succeeded as president by Barack Obama, who ran on a platform of change from Bushs policies. Since leaving office, Bush has 
returned to Texas and purchased a home in a suburban area of Dallas. He is currently a public speaker, has written a memoir entitled Decision Points, and his 
presidential library opened in 2013. Although his presidency has been ranked among the worst in recent surveys of presidential scholars, his favorability 
ratings among the public have improved since he left office.