My Administration is committed to creating an unprecedented level of openness 
in Government.  We will work together to ensure the public trust and establish 
a system of transparency, public participation, and collaboration. Openness will 
strengthen our democracy and promote efficiency and effectiveness in 
Government, Barack  Obama [or someone authorized to pretend hes Obama] wrote 
on the White House official website, soon after he was elected. He went on to 
talk about how government should be more transparent, participatory and 
collaborative.
At the time, these were words that inspired me and got me to tune back in to the 
promise that our government might shed more light on what they were up to and that 
it might use social technologies to have open conversations with the constituents 
they are supposed to serve. The Obama administration seemed to be promising 
everything that was missing in the prior administration.
But in retrospect, none of this has happened. I don’t have the statistics to 
back up the claim, but it seems to me that Obama has held few news conferences 
than did his predecessor; he has conducted fewer interviews. He and his 
administration have not participated in social media. Online mechanisms have 
not been used to give the people more information and more voice. For a brief 
and exciting time Barack Obama was called the Transparency President, but 
that is no more.
Yesterday, the White House Press Core has sent a letter to Presidential Press 
Secretary Jim Carney protesting the recently imposed ban on on phototaking 
at certain events. This is not something I would usually cover in this column. 
But I just coauthored a book that declares trust is the new currency in the 
coming age of context, and trust is obviously, based on transparency. While once 
many had hoped he would light a lighgt on government; it now appears we are 
left to curse the darkness.
It seems to me that the Transparent President has become The Opaque President.
During the six years  of the Obama administration one revelation has followed the 
next that while the current administration eschews being questioned and 
photographed, it is watching more of its own citizens and people throughout the 
world. Those who have made such revelations have been imprisoned and exiled hardly 
activities that encourage transparency, participation and collaboration as the 
president allegedly wrote.
So, if my book is accurate, and trust is indeed the new currency, then perhaps 
Obama has brought deficit spending to an entirely new level.
I am no expert on what goes on in Washington. I have no idea whether the next step 
will be a White House backoff on the photo ban. Or it could go the other way and 
official photos of events will be accompanied by official press releases on the 
events and the media will be banned from attending events altogether. If Robert 
Scoble and I were right about trust being the new currency, then the Obama White 
House has invented a new form of deficit spending.


