The Lethal Presidency of Barack Obama
Sure, we as a nation have always killed people. A lot of people. But no president 
has ever waged war by killing enemies one by one, targeting them individually 
for execution, wherever they are. The Obama administration has taken pains to 
tell us, over and over again, that they are careful, scrupulous of our laws, 
and determined to avoid the loss of collateral, innocent lives. Theyre careful 
because when it comes to waging war on individuals, the distinction between war 
and murder becomes a fine one. Especially when, on occasion, the individuals we 
target are Americans and when, in one instance, the collateral damage was an 
American boy.
President Obama will give a speech Thursday outlining his administrations 
counterterrorism policy, including targeted killings. Here is Tom Junods original 
story about the presidents use of drones, published in the August 2012 issue.
You are a good man. You are an honorable man. You are both president of the United 
States and the winner of the Nobel Peace Prize. You are both the most powerful 
man in the world and an unimpeachably upstanding citizen. You place a large 
premium on being beyond reproach. You have become your own deliberative body, 
standing not so much by your decisions as by the process by which you make them. 
You are not only rational; you are a rationalist. You think everything through, as 
though it is within your power to find the point where what is moral meets what is 
necessary.
You love two things, your family and the law, and you have surrounded yourself 
with those who are similarly inclined. To make sure that you obey the law, you 
have hired lawyers prominent for accusing your predecessor of flouting it; to 
make sure that you dont fall prey to the inevitable corruption of secrecy, you 
have hired lawyers on record for being committed to transparency. Unlike 
George W. Bush, you have never held yourself above the law by virtue of being 
commander in chief; indeed, you have spent part of your political capital trying 
to prove civilian justice adequate to our security needs. You prize both 
discipline and deliberation; you insist that those around you possess a personal 
integrity that matches their political ideals and your own; and it is out of 
these unlikely ingredients that you have created the Lethal Presidency.
You are a historic figure, Mr. President. You are not only the first African
American president; you are the first who has made use of your power to target 
and kill individuals identified as a threat to the United States throughout 
your entire term. You are the first president to make the killing of targeted 
individuals the focus of our military operations, of our intelligence, of our 
nationalsecurity strategy, and, some argue, of our foreign policy. You have 
authorized kill teams comprised of both soldiers from Special Forces and 
civilians from the CIA, and you have coordinated their efforts through the 
Departments of Justice and State. You have gradually withdrawn from the nation 
building required by counterinsurgency and poured resources into the covert 
operations that form the basis of counterterrorism. More than any other 
president you have made the killing rather than the capture of individuals 
the option of first resort, and have killed them both from the sky, with 
drones, and on the ground, with nighttime raids not dissimilar to the one 
that killed Osama bin Laden. You have killed individuals in Afghanistan, Iraq, 
Pakistan, Yemen, Somalia, and Libya, and are making provisions to expand the 
presence of American Special Forces in Asia, Africa, and Latin America. In 
Pakistan and other places where the United States has not committed troops, 
you are estimated to have killed at least two thousand by drone. You have 
formalized what is known as the program, and at the height of its activity 
it was reported to be launching drone strikes in Pakistan every three days. Your 
lethality is expansive in both practice and principle; you are fighting terrorism 
with a policy of preemptive execution, and claiming not just the legal right to 
do so but the legal right to do so in secret. The American people, for the most 
part, have no idea who has been killed, and why; the American people and for 
that matter, most of their representatives in Congress — have no idea what crimes 
those killed in their name are supposed to have committed, and have been told 
that they are not entitled to know.
This is not to say that the American people dont know about the Lethal Presidency, 
and that they dont support its aims. They do. They know about the killing because 
you have celebrated with appropriate sobriety the most notable kills, 
specifically those of Osama bin Laden and Anwar alAwlaki; they support it 
because you have asked for their trust as a good and honorable man surrounded by 
good and honorable men and women and they have given it to you. In so doing, you 
have changed a technological capability into a moral imperative and have convinced 
your countrymen to see the necessity without seeing the downside. Politically, 
there is no downside. Historically, there is only the irony of the upside that 
you, of all presidents, have become the lethal one; that you, of all people, have 
turned out to be a man of proven integrity whose foreign and domestic policies are 
less popular than your proven willingness to kill, in defense of your country, 
even your own countrymen ... indeed, to kill even a sixteenyearold American 
boy accused of no crime at all.